In the previous chapter we have been talking about Decision Tree classifier and we have come to the
conclusion that there's a huge problem as far as decision trees are concerned and this problem is that
every split it makes at each node is optimized for the data that it is fit to.
So the splitting process will rarely generalize well to other data sets.
Basically DC scored overfitting that the algorithm works extremely fine on the training data.
Sad but it does not generalize well to other data sets such as for the past data set.
So this is the problem of overfitting and decision trees have the tendency to overfit.
Ok that's why we can use two methods.
The so-called pruning and the so called begging approach in order to reduce overfitting.
So first of all was the aim when dealing with the machine learning algorithms.
We want to choose a model that captures the relationships between the training data set Plass generalizes
well to Arnstein data such as for the task sap.
But generally it is impossible to achieve both of them at the same time.
So this is called bias variance tradeoff.
We are not able to come up with a model that's working fine on the training data set as well as on the
test data set.
So first of all what is abayas and what is Varians bias is the ADD or from mis classifications in the
learning algorithm.
Hi bias means that the algorithm misses the relevant relationships between features and the target outputs.
This is called underfeeding.
So Banias is the error or due to modal mismatch.
OK so we have been discussing under fitting when the model hasn't been fitted to the training data set.
It misses the trends in the training data set.
And this is usually the case when we use two simple models for the problem.
So as you can see we have a dataset like this and we use a simple in your regression which is a very
very simple model.
This simple model is not able to grasp the trends and relationships between the given features.
In this case we have two features x1 and x2.
So this is the problem of under fitting when we use two simple models.
OK so bias is the air or from misclassification in the learning algorithm.
Variance is the air or from sensitivity to small changes in the training data set so high variance can
it goes over a fake thing.
So in this case the algorithm models do noise in the data set so high bias has something to do with
under affecting high variance has something to do with overfitting.
So variance is a variation due to training sample and randomization.
OK so this is the overfitting problem as you can see we have x1 and x2 features and we use two complex
modals.
It means that it is very accurate on the training data set but yields poor results on the Passat.
This is called overfitting the model learns the noise instead of the actual relationships between the
variables in the data set and the bias variance straight of principle states that we are not able to
optimize both bias and variance at the same time if the bias is low then the variance is high.
If there is no variance then the bias is going to be high.
So basically we have to make a tradeoff as far as optimizing bias and variance is concerned.
And it has something to do with modal complexity because if we use a very very simple model there's
some probability of under fitting.
If we use a very very complex model there's a chance of overfitting.
So model complexity and we have the error or OK and we have a bias and variance.
It is the bias of straight up because the bias is small then the variance is high.
If the variance is small the bias is going to be high.
If the bias is high it is the case of under fitting.
So the modal complexity is rather low which means that we use a very very simple model such as linear
regression if the bias is low.
The variance is high such as for decision trees.
It means that we use a rather complex model and that's why there is some overfitting and with the half
of the pruning and begging we are able to reduce the variance of a given model.
OK so usual Asian trees are likely to overfeed the data leading to poor performance loss decision trees
are unstable classifier if you change the data just a little bit that we might significantly change.
So there's a low bias but on the other hand a high variance.
OK if we use smaller trees and fewer splits there's going to be better predictors at the cost of a little
extra bias.
So a better solution is to grow a large tree and then prune it back to a smaller subtree.
This is the weakest link pruning.
OK so first of all we are going to generate the decision tree.
For example we have of 60 to learn decision tree classifier and after we have the fully grown decision
tree we are going to prune it back.
So this is the decision tree after the pruning operation.
OK.
So you may pose the question.
Why is it good to use pruning.
Because we are able to reduce the variance of decision tree classifier model because we came to the
conclusion that decision trees have the tendency to overfit overfitting means low bias and high variance.
So if we try to decrease the variance we are going to eliminate overfitting.
So that's why we do the help of pruning we are able to reduce variance.
And what's the main problem with pruning that there's going to be a little extra bias and that's why
usually we do not use pruning.
Instead we use bagging or we use random for us classifier.
So the first step in order to reduce the variance of the model is to use pruning where we make sure
that the size of the original decision tree is going to be reduced.
Thanks for watching.